# Chat server DB

This project is a full stack chat applications for multiple users developed during the junior part of the Codeworks bootcamp. There are two versions for the backend; one running with Sequelize and Postgres and a second with Mongoose and MongoDB. Both will work seamlessly with the same client.

## Tech Stack

### Client

The client was developed with HTML, CSS, JS and some jQuery magic. No SPA frameworks were used. The layout was implemented CSS Grid and Flexbox. CSS variables were used to carry over spacing and color values from a design system and mockup previously created in figma.

### Backend

The server was created with Koa and Nodejs. ODM/ORM of choice were Mongoose and Sequelize.

There is a rudimentary session management that creates users on login and saves the currentUser in local storage. Every chat message is associated with it's author in the DB schema. SocketIO has been used to inform the client of new users entering the chat and update the chatui with incoming messages.

## Getting started

The following npm commands will start the server:

Mongoose Backend: `npm run mongoose`
Sequelize Backend: `npm run sequelize`

There is also a docker-compose file that will start up a Postgres and Mongodb database. To start it you need to have Docker installed and run `npm run start-docker`.

If you want to switch backend servers, be sure to logout first or clear your LocalStorage in order to avoid problems with the Ids generated by both databases that cannot be shared.

## TODOs

1. Remove disconnected users from list of Online Users
2. Add Figma Design System and mockup
